README.md, before:

lua2md
======

Fun and braindead code documentation. Reads in annotated [lua][1] code and
writes out [markdown][2]-formatted documentation. lua2md is documented
using itself ;p

[1]: http://www.lua.org/
[2]: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/

Documenting Code
----------------

Documentation lines start with `---` followed by a space, except when they
are blank lines, in which case you don't need the space. Documentation
lines are run through markdown and output directly. Code (everything that's
not documentation) is converted into markdown code blocks.

    --- This is a documentation line and will be converted to markdown
    --- paragraphs
    This is code which is output as a code block.

Code blocks have leading and trailing blank lines removed, and code blocks
which end up being empty are not output.

For example, the following:

    --- Empty code blocks
    
    
    --- are omitted.

outputs as

> Empty code blocks
>
> are omitted.

Note that although the code block is not shown, the break in documentation
still acts as a paragraph break.


Implementation
--------------


### doc(line)
If `line` contains documentation, then returns the markdown to output,
otherwise returns `false`.

    function doc(line)
      return line:match('^%-%-%- (.*)$') or line:match('^%-%-%-$') and ""
    end

### code(line)
If `line` contains code, then returns the markdown to output, otherwise
returns `false`.

    function code(line)
      return not doc(line) and '    ' .. line
    end

### is_blank(line)
Returns `true` if `line` is a blank line, `false` otherwise.

    function is_blank(line)
      return line:match('^%s*$') and true
    end

### parse_doc(line)
Parses a documentation block.

    function parse_doc(line)
      local docline = doc(line)
      while docline do
        print(docline)
        line = io.read()
        if not line then return end
        docline = doc(line)
      end
      print()
      return parse_code(line)
    end

### parse_code(line)
Parses a code block.

    function parse_code(line)
      while is_blank(line) do
        line = io.read()
        if not line then return end
      end
    
      local blanks = {}
      local codeline = code(line)
      while codeline do
        if is_blank(codeline) then
          table.insert(blanks, codeline)
        else
          if #blanks ~= 0 then
            print(table.concat(blanks, '\n'))
            blanks = {}
          end
          print(codeline)
        end
    
        line = io.read()
        if not line then return end
        codeline = code(line)
      end
      print()
      return parse_doc(line)
    end

### initialization
Tests whether the lua document starts with documentation or code, then
starts the corresponding parser.

    local line = io.read()
    if not line then return end
    if doc(line) then
      parse_doc(line)
    else
      parse_code(line)
    end

License
-------

Copyright (C) 2009 Henk Boom

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

added support for indented documentation

README.md, after:

lua2md
======

Fun and braindead code documentation. Reads in annotated [lua][1] code and
writes out [markdown][2]-formatted documentation. lua2md is documented
using itself ;p

[1]: http://www.lua.org/
[2]: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/

Documenting Code
----------------

Documentation lines start with `---` followed by a space, except when they
are blank lines, in which case you don't need the space. Documentation
lines are run through markdown and output directly. Code (everything that's
not documentation) is converted into markdown code blocks.

    --- This is a documentation line and will be converted to markdown
    --- paragraphs
    This is code which is output as a code block.

Code blocks have leading and trailing blank lines removed, and code blocks
which end up being empty are not output.

For example, the following:

    --- Empty code blocks
    
    
    --- are omitted.

outputs as

> Empty code blocks
>
> are omitted.

Note that although the code block is not shown, the break in documentation
still acts as a paragraph break.


Usage
-----

Currently lua2md always reads source code from standard input and writes
documentation to standard output. As an example, lua2md's own documentation
can be generated with:

    lua lua2md.lua < lua2md.lua > README.md


Implementation
--------------


### doc(line)
If `line` contains documentation, then returns the markdown to output,
otherwise returns `false`.

    function doc(line)
      return line:match('^%s*%-%-%- (.*)$') or line:match('^%s*%-%-%-$') and ""
    end

### code(line)
If `line` contains code, then returns the markdown to output, otherwise
returns `false`.

    function code(line)
      return not doc(line) and '    ' .. line
    end

### is_blank(line)
Returns `true` if `line` is a blank line, `false` otherwise.

    function is_blank(line)
      return line:match('^%s*$') and true
    end

### parse_doc(line)
Parses a documentation block.

    function parse_doc(line)
      local docline = doc(line)
      while docline do
        print(docline)
        line = io.read()
        if not line then return end
        docline = doc(line)
      end
      print()
      return parse_code(line)
    end

### parse_code(line)
Parses a code block.

    function parse_code(line)
      while is_blank(line) do
        line = io.read()
        if not line then return end
      end
    
      local blanks = {}
      local codeline = code(line)
      while codeline do
        if is_blank(codeline) then
          table.insert(blanks, codeline)
        else
          if #blanks ~= 0 then
            print(table.concat(blanks, '\n'))
            blanks = {}
          end
          print(codeline)
        end
    
        line = io.read()
        if not line then return end
        codeline = code(line)
      end
      print()
      return parse_doc(line)
    end

### initialization
Tests whether the lua document starts with documentation or code, then
starts the corresponding parser.

    local line = io.read()
    if not line then return end
    if doc(line) then
      parse_doc(line)
    else
      parse_code(line)
    end

License
-------

Copyright (C) 2009 Henk Boom

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
